So let's go ahead and create our subnets.
So on the left hand side, I will go to Subnets,
and as we can see, there are three subnets
and they belong to the previous VPC.
So what I can do is I can filter my views by a specific VPC.
So I need to refresh this page first,
so it will click on Select a VPC,
and I will choose the DemoVPC
just to filter all my views by VPC
and not have any noise in my UI.
Okay, so now, as you can see,
we have zero subnets associated with that specific VPC.
So we'll create a subnet, and then we just select a VPC,
so this DemoVPC subnet.
And then, we need to specify the subnet settings.
So, the subnet name.
The first one is going to be PublicSubnetA,
and this is because we put a subnet in AZ A.
So, we'll specify a specific AZ,
so eu-central-1a, so AZ number A.
And then, we need to select an IPv4 CIDR block.
So to get started, let's go with 10.0.0.0/24.
This is because, in a public subnet,
you wanna choose not too many IP addresses.
Usually, this is reserved for your load balancers
or your front-facing infrastructure.
So, a smaller subnet size is good.
And again, if you wanna check what this is,
this is 256 addresses.
And because we have a slash 24,
only the last octet can change.
And so therefore, it goes from .0 all the way to .255.
Okay, so we have this name tag, PublicSubnetA.
And here, we can actually add a second subnet, okay?
So it could be PublicSubnetB,
and this one is going to be an AZ eu-central-1b.
And, so we need to choose an IPv4 CIDR block.
Now, the last IP address that we had in here was .0.255,
so what I would choose is 10.0.1.0/24, okay?
And this is the next range
after the one we've defined right here, okay?
So again, you can check out what this range means
in this website.
And as you can see, the first IP is 10.0.0.1.0,
and the second is 10.0.1.255.
Perfect, so we have defined two public subnets
and now we're going to have some private subnets.
So PrivateSubnetA,
and we need to choose an IPv4 CIDR block.
Now, let's choose something
like 10.0.16.0/20,
and this is a bigger subnet size, okay?
And if you have a look at the range about what this is,
so we have 4,096 IP addresses in it.
So, it starts at 10.0.16.0,
and then it ends at 10.0.31.255.
Okay, so this is good.
And now, let's add one last subnet, so PrivateSubnetB,
and the AZ is going to be an eu-central-1b.
No, I didn't set up the AZ here,
so let's make sure we do.
Okay, perfect.
And, the IPv4 CIDR block
is going to be the next logical one,
so .32.0/20.
Okay, so we have four subnets being created.
I will create them four.
And because there's no overlapping IP addresses,
as we can see, the creation was successful.
So now, if we have a look on the right hand side,
we can see that there are different amount
of IP addresses available.
So, this one is 251, and this one is 4,091.
So again, there are five IP addresses, remember,
that were reserved by your subnets.
And this is something that you remember.
So what you're going to get
is the size of the CIDR minus five,
so this explains these numbers right here.
Also, we did define these segments across two AZ,
so eu-central-1a and 1b,
and the reason we do so is you get high availability
if we were to put resources in it.
But we haven't done anything yet
to define what makes subnets public,
or what makes a subnet private.
Right now, they all look the same,
so we'll see how to do this in the future lectures.
For now, we're good to go in this setup.
So I hope you liked this lecture,
and I will see you in the next lecture.